Today we're going to talk
about spelling correction.
Lots of applications make
use of spelling correction.
For example, word processing,
almost any modern word processor
will take a misspelled word like component
with an a and give you suggestions
like component with an e, and
automatically replace it for you.
Modern search engines will not only flag
an error, so language spelled without a u
here, but give you the results as if
you had spelled the word correctly.
And modern phones additionally will
automatically find misspelled words here,
I typed layr and
it replaced it automatically or
suggests a replacement with late.
We can distinguish a number of
separate tasks in spelling correction.
One is the detection of
the error itself and
then the correction of
the error once you've found it.
We can think about different
kinds of correction.
We might automatically correct
an error if we're positive that we
know the right answer for the error.
So hte is a very common misspelling for
the, so many word processors
automatically correct hte.
We might suggest a single correction if
there's only one very likely correction.
Or we might suggest a whole
list of corrections and
let the user pick from among them.
We distinguish two different
classes of spelling errors.
Non-word errors are errors in which what
the user types is not a word of English.
So G-R-A-F-F-E, a misspelling, let's say,
for giraffe, is not a word of English.
By contrast,
real word errors are errors in which
the resulting misspelling is
actually a word of English and
that makes them somewhat harder to detect.
And we can break up real word errors into
ones produced by really
typographical processes.
The user meant to type three and
typed there, let's say.
Or cognitive errors where the user
meant to type a word like piece and
instead typed a homophone of the word or
t-o-o instead of t-w-o.
And in both cases,
what's produced in a word of English,
but by modelling the differences
between these kind of errors,
in my pump of better
ways of fixing them both.
How common are spelling errors?
Depends a lot on the task.
So in web queries,
spelling errors are extremely common.
So, practically one in four.
Words in a web query are more
likely to be misspelled.
In word processing tasks on phones it's
much harder to get an accurate number.
So there's been a number of studies, and
most of these studies
are done by retyping.
You give the user a passage to type, and
then you measure how well they type it.
And that's of course not quite the same
as users naturally writing messages or
typing.
Nonetheless, if you ask users to re-type,
and
you don't let them use the backspace key,
they make about 13% are in error.
So indicating that a lot of words they
correct themselves with the backspace.
If you let them correct, now we're
turning to experiment on a PDA style,
a phone sized organizer, they'll correct
about 7% of the work themselves.
They'll still leave about 2%
uncorrected on organizer.
And similar numbers on people doing
retyping, on a regular keyboard.
So a number of about 2%
where people typing and
probably a much higher number for
web quarries, and probably a much higher
number for people texting are the kinds
of spelling error rates that we see.
How do we detect non-word spelling errors?
The traditional way is just
to use a large dictionary.
Any word not in
the dictionary is an error.
The larger the dictionary,
it turns out, the better this works.
For correcting these non-word spelling
errors we generate a set of candidates,
that's real words that
are similar to the error.
And then we pick whichever one is best,
and
we'll talk about the noisy channel
probability model of how to do that.
And it's also related to another method
called the shortest weighted edit
distance method.
So we find words that are not in the
dictionary, for each one we generate a set
of candidates, and those are going to
be real words that are similar.
We'll talk about what
similar means to that error,
and then we'll pick the best one.
For real world spelling errors,
the algorithm is quite similar.
Again, for each word, we generate
a candidate set, but now we do this for
every word in the sentence, not just
the words that are not in some dictionary.
So with real world spelling error
correction, we don't use a dictionary,
because of course the errors are in
the dictionary, so that wouldn't help.
So for every word we generate a candidate
set so we might find candidate words with
similar pronunciations, we might find
candidate words with similar spelling and
depending on the algorithm exactly and
it's very important that we're going on
include the word itself in
the candidate set because the every
word might be a misspelling of some other
real word or it might be the correct word.
In fact, most words are probably correct.
So for
each candidate set of each possible error,
we're going to include the word itself.
And most of the time, in fact,
we're going to pick that.
And again, how we pick the words,
we might use the noisy channel model.
We might use a classifier.
We'll talk about that.
So we'll discuss the different
methods of detecting these errors and
correcting them in the next section.